****************
What is MathJax?
****************

MathJax is an open-source JavaScript display engine for LaTeX and
MathML that works in all modern browsers.  It was designed with the
goal of consolidating the recent advances in web technologies into a
single, definitive, math-on-the-web platform supporting the major
browsers and operating systems.  It requires no setup on the part of
the user (no plugins to downlaod or software to install), so the page
author can write web documents that include mathematics and be
confident that users will be able to view it naturally and easily.
One simply includes MathJax and some mathematics in a web page, and
MathJax does the rest.

MathJax uses web-based fonts (in those browsers that support it) to
produce high-quality typesetting that scales and prints at full
resolution (unlike mathematics included as images).  MathJax can be
used with screen readers, providing accessibility for the visually
impaired.  With MathJax, mathematics is text-based rather than
image-based, and so it is available for search engines, meaning that
your equations can be searchable, just like the text of your pages.
MathJax allows page authors to write formulas using TeX and LaTeX
notation, or `MathML <http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3>`_, a World Wide
Web Constortium standard for representing mathematics in XML format.
MathJax will even convert TeX notation into MathML, so that it can be
rendered more quickly by those browsers that support MathML natively,
or so that you can copy and past it into other programs.

MathJax is modular, so it loads components only when necessary, and
can be extended to include new capabilities as needed.  MathJax is
highly configurable, allowing authors to customize it for the special
requirements of their web sites.  Finally, MathJax has a rich
application programming interface (API) that can be used to make the
mathematics on your web pages interactive and dynamic.

